Work come back in this video we are going to have a look at sounds and how we can use them within our
games.
So you can simply google for royalty free game sounds.
And there you can find some websites which have multiple sounds 1000 free sound effects music tracks
loops for games and so forth.
As you can see you can find very many websites which have this sort of free sound sound Bible audio
and music.
Unity as its store.
So there is one called free game music which is great and which we are going to use so well that's one
option of course you can go to pay just like free sound for example.
They are by Caston Flash who has created quite some music so space sound.
A San Antonio Earthman which means sun tunnel open mysterious sounds and so forth.
So if you want to have a bean within your game you can simply download this being here.
But on this page you will have to log in to download the sound.
But that's how the beam would sound for example.
Well you can google and find great sounds online quite easily.
But be careful that their license is Creative Commons zero.
So it means that you may use them for free without having to pay any royalty fees and so on.
All right.
So let's go to unity let's search for absolutely free music.
All right so let's go ahead.
Absolutely.
Free music and you'll find this as sent here by Virtex studio.
And you can download that so you can download the whole package and only import just the music that
you want to use.
As I have already downloaded it I can import it directly and I'm just going to use any of the sounds.
It's decompressing it and I don't want to use all of them but let's just use number one.
That's important.
And in this case I'm actually going to get rid of my canvas and my game manager.
So let's delete those.
No I only have my cue.
Let's go back to our scene as you see.
There is a new folder here called Game music and it has one sound here which is an audio file which
you can now use in your game.
So let's go to our cube.
That's where it is.
And what I want to do is I want to add a sound onto my cube itself.
So let's add a component and an audio component to be precise.
And then hear audio source.
Let's add an audio source as you can see the audience audio source now expects an audio clip and that
here.
That little piece of music is an audio clip.
So what you can do now is direct that audio clip into your audio source.
And now it's reduced the volume because that would be a bit too loud.
All right let's get started.
Let's play the music or play the game and you might hear that there are some sounds coming and you can
change the pitch here you can change the volume the priority any time.
And the music only starts playing because now here it says play on away.
So as soon as the object that contains this audio source is a awoken we will hear the music.
So I'm just going to change the volume to zero then another important piece is this loop loop will allow
us to run the sound over and over again.
So as soon as the sound or the music is done it will start off from the beginning.
Now of course there are multiple other properties here as you can see and you can access those later
on via code.
Now let's have a quick look how we can start to sound via code.
So let's add a component in your script and I'm going to call that sound behavior.
And I add that to our cube I'm going to keep it simple.
So let's open up that sound behavior script and then hear what I want to do is I want to start to sound
as soon as I press a button.
So actually I need the update method and the update method is going to work like that.
I'm going to say if there is input so if the player presses a button get key down and the key code will
be let's say space.
So if the player presses space go ahead and start.
Sound.
So to start sound and how do I get the sound what I need to get an audio source here.
So public audio source
and I'm just going to call that music now.
Now I can go ahead in my update method and I can start to music
with play.
So I simply called the plaintiff.
Now of course if I do that I need to be sure that music exists so that there is some music I can check
here if music exists.
So if it's not empty only then play the music.
What that does is it checks.
Is there an audio source in music or is there not.
And if there's not then it will not run.
So let's check that out.
Sound behavior is going to get a new variable here.
As you can see music now can drag the audio source and where they get it from.
Well actually from here.
So I dragged the audio source from here to there.
And now let's de-activate play on awake so I'm going to deactivate that and if I run the game now it
shouldn't play any sound.
I hope you hear that they don't hear anything.
And now let's press the space key and the music starts.
So it's not great music.
At least the beginning is a bit weird but then the music starts.
All right.
And likewise of course you can go ahead here and check if the music is currently running.
So if music that is playing so well maybe you should use the square brackets here.
If music is playing then don't play any music and else play music.
So if music is playing don't play music.
And so it means music thought stop.
So stop the music and otherwise play the music.
All right.
Let's check that out again and pressed play.
No music is running.
I pressed the play button.
And there's some music coming up.
You might hear it
right.
And I press the space key again and the music stops.
I press it again as you can see the music starts from the start I press it again and it's gone.
So that's how easy it is.
You can of course check out what other methods the music or the audio source class has.
So here audio source for example if you mute you could mute the music and not stop it so it would still
run.
But that wasn't wouldn't be any sound coming out.
Then you can of course pause it can change the pitch.
As you can see there are methods and proper DCU.
So you could change the pitch.
You can change the property mute.
You can run the method pause which will pause the music and so forth.
So there's are plenty of methods you can check them out.
And yeah that's pretty much it.
So he paused and unpause maybe that would be the better option.
So if the music is playing for the first time you could run play.
Otherwise we could run pause to stop it and then unpause to run it again.
All right so let's add here.
Stop and we're good to go.